# TFP-Barometer Project

## Twitter Public Opinion Barometer on Turkish-American Relations

This research aims to analyze the public opinion trends on Twitter, among both Turkish- and English-speaking communities. By using novel techniques, in particular, it studies the prevailing opinions and changes in perceptions about Turkish-American relations among the selected Twitter users who speak on foreign policy issues.

This research uses computational social science methods to extract, store, analyze and visualize data. To analyze data, it followed two complementary methodologies: first, key events affecting the trajectory of Turkish-American relations and study the trends in public opinion around these key events are listed according to extant literature. Second, twitter data is collected to measure public opinion by using automated text analysis and machine learning methods. Regarding ethical issues, Twitter’s terms of service inform the users that the data created in this space will be shared with the public. The users implicitly give their consent to the researchers to use their data. However, data have been stored in an anonymous way by complying the relevant scientific and ethical standards.

To measure elite public opinion on Twitter, 1411 genuine twitter accounts have been detected. To identify targeted twitter users, a new twitter account has been created specific to this study. Twitter users were classified in terms of their nationalities, occupation, gender, discussion topics and user type. In the nationality column, Turk, American and others are three options. In the occupation category, politicians, academics, diplomat, journalist and freelancers were determined for clustering process. Regarding discussion topics, Turkish Foreign Policy, American Foreign Policy and International Relations are three main subjects. Considering user type, users have been classified in terms of being individual and institutional account. In addition, relevant to the subject matter, around one hundred-word combinations including key events and key terms have been determined for both Turkish and English languages. This helped us to filter and make narrow our dataset. All of the users’ data obtained from Twitter and filtered by using our word corpus. At last, we obtained three different tweet data files. First one is unfiltered, second is first filtered by using single words, and third is filtered tweets containing only Turk and American words. This helped us to compare three different subsets in our main dataset.

The paper applied multiple methods to explore twitter text data in terms of frequency analysis (most frequent concept, word, name, etc), sentiment analysis (affection or attitudes), namedentity recognition (following the agenda formation based on particular names), campaign detection (following specific campaigns around particular junctures), and topic modelling.
